Hello in today's lesson finally you learn how to book the map from Google at the bottom of our thing.
My initial thought was to install one more plug in to do this.
But to create Smarr without the use of plugins.
This time however for those of you who prefer to use plugins one I recommend is W.T. Google Maps and
use it in some of my projects quite successfully.
But the one thing I don't like sometimes in plugins and this also holds true for some premium themes
is that they bring in many features of which we only use one or two.
So let's get our hands dirty this time with a bit of piece be called for this lesson.
We use the Google maps in embed API and it's place mode.
And here is a note since this lesson is an updated version of the original content of this course.
I had to rewrite this lesson because since June 11 2018 Google has changed the way of getting the necessary
API key to run the map service for every individual or application that wants to use the service.
In summary if you want to place the Google map on your site via API you want to be able to ignore any
process I'm about to describe.
While our record is video there is still little information about it outside of Google's own that communication
which is not always easy to understand.
So if I have any other news I'm going to update the lesson once again and notify you or by e-mail or
some other way.
OK.
But the good news is that for 98 99 percent of the cases those API keys will still remain 100 percent
free.
Well this according to Google which also promises some improvements like 24 hours support and improved
performance et cetera.
So let's go let's implement roadmap for this to be possible.
We'll open the Google documentation to understand how it works.
This link will be available to you in the additional material on this lecture.
OK.
So don't worry about it.
Well this API works quite simply.
Basically it adds frim with information from a map of a particular location.
There are five types of maps which Google calls modes get placed mode which we use in this less than
view mode.
Directions mode street view mode and search mode.
Now this last three modes are part of which they call now and then map modes.
I must confess I didn't understand yet how it will work for these other cases but it seems that if you
want access to them you'll necessarily have to pay that is whenever a visitor access your site when
it opens a map with these advanced services you have to pay for it.
But the place Mole's that we're going to implement in this course as you understand later is still free
for most of the projects to implement this maps.
You basically need a Google API key.
First let's go back to the top of the page and bring in a copy of the contents of this I-frame has opened
up that page home that page profile and you're going to see where our map will be placed.
Let's delete what we have here including this container and this row which you will not need because
the map was banned from right or left.
And let's face the frame here.
Legs modified this markup a bit so that the appearance of the map stays the way we want.
Let's change the with to 100 percent the height is 250.
Add in other information and the end of this.
Ampersand zoom ECOs 15 This ensures that this map will start with the value of 15 which is the zoom
value that allows us to build the streets on the map at a good distance not to make the map really customized.
When the two pieces of information the first one is the services API key.
Without this key the map will not be shown on the page.
A couple of years ago it was possible to implement a map like this one without the key but not anymore.
As I told you at the beginning of the lesson since June 2018 Google has changed the process a little.
Basically the company now requires every user to enable billing information to their account in order
to activate the Google Maps API.
However the good news is that Google gives all users enough free credit every month so that the vast
majority of sites will never have to pay anything for that service.
That's why I said to you at the beginning of the lesson that for 98 percent or 99 percent of cases this
API will remain free.
At least that's what Google promises.
But at the end of the video I'm going to give you some tips on this.
Well let's continue then go back to the Google Maps Web site and here below we have all the instructions
on how to get a key to generate a key.
However you'll need a Google account.
If you don't have one yet you can create yours for free as well.
Let's click here on get a key
get started.
And here's the big change once you ask to generate the key this little window here from Google Maps
platform will appear as you see here has three steps to follow.
First to choose the type of service then select or create a project and finally enable billing.
Let's start by checking this first option.
Maps continue.
And in this new popup window you can select or create a new project.
If that's your first project here you can choose this default project called my project or create a
new one with another name.
Let's create a new project let's call it learn W.P. key next.
And now Google is asking you to enable building for the project.
We have created.
Well mine is in Portuguese.
I don't know why.
Maybe because the language is automatically set based on my location but there is no problem because
I'll be translating every text to its English equivalent.
During the rest of the video and maybe the next steps and screens will be slightly different depending
on the country you live in or on your language.
But anyway I think you won't have any problems.
Hey don't be scared about the step that is asking you to create a bean counter case because the whole
service will be free since June 2018.
Google requires that all accounts use the Mac platform enable information but at the same time it gives
you a monthly credit of $200 so that you can use the service without paying for it.
The difference is that in the past you didn't have to create a billion account.
In practice what happened to me was this.
As I already have a Mac project I received an email from the company on May 2nd saying that based on
my project usage over the last three months I would still have access to their service without having
to pay anything beyond that two hundred dollars credit.
Well if you stop and think and I think that's what Google has concluded $200 is more than enough for
most web sites implement in the map.
Just to illustrate on this page you can see how far you can go with this $200 credit.
Here regards some usage examples.
And I think you can see that the number of Web loads is more than enough for most cases.
In fact the few cases where this is not going to be enough will be for large scale companies or for
startups there is people that really can't afford paying more than $200 a month on Google services which
is not your case I believe and here below we have the Frequently Asked Questions for example can I still
use Google Maps platform for free.
And here they say yes in explaining why this other link here with the price list will also be available
to you.
And here you can see the usage limits you have for each API key.
Okay.
Here on the same page you also have that link that you can access to manage your account according to
Google or you can easily said use age limits to protect against unexpected cost increases.
Anyway I think you have already understood that you hardly have to pay for the service as it was before.
So lets go back to the previous page.
Click here to create a billion account write a name for your bidding account.
Click here.
Choose a country and your currency
and here you enter the billion data.
If you already have an associated billing account for example if you have already purchased an app in
place for your billing information you've already been shown here.
In our case let's create one from scratch.
Choose individual I'm going to feel like my data here
and here is this warning you pay for this service only after you accrue costs.
Before clicking here just turned my free trial.
I'm going to talk about a question I received from a student of this course.
So here's the question when a Buddha said for a customer how should I proceed as it will be rather complicated
to let the customer register his or her credit card to get an AP ID.
Is it safe to use my own google account for that.
And what if I registered at API key on my credit card and the customer at some point has a lot of requests
on that APHC then I would sit on unwanted invoices.
How could I prevent that just by choosing that project.
How would you approach this.
Well in the past I would say that it doesn't matter who's going to register the IPO key.
But now I advise you to ask your clients to create the key with his or her own Google account.
You never know how he or she used this service and how fast their website will grow.
So if the website grows a lot over time the number of requests will increase of course.
And you the developer is not the one who's going to pay for it and you may say Marcello I don't like
this technique that you're showing.
It's very complicated and involves a credit card.
I'm going to install a plug in.
I think that's easier.
No wrong option.
And the plug in that you install will also as huge a generator Goo-Goo API key.
So there's no way out if you want a map from Google on your website.
It's a map that is not static.
Well let's go back to Google.
So let's move on.
Click here to go to the next screen
and enable my API key.
Wait a minute.
And there it is.
We already get the API key when needed.
And here is give you advice to restrict this key.
This is quite interesting and important so that you generate the keys used only in your project.
For example only on your website or only in your application since you're using this key on a local
server there is no problem in use.
And then the street is key for now.
But it's interesting that you always restrict the use of the key OK.
Unfortunately as this lesson is becoming lengthy and just to stay on the subject I'm going to just point
you out to a greater charge about that.
OK.
Let's go ahead and cop it is key and I spaced it inside the A-frame tag after this key equals strain.
Now to finish out that we just need to start and address this address will allow the API to center the
map and apply a marker exactly at this address since this is just a test.
I'm just going to leave this address as it is now but notice that the dress has these plus signs if
you decide to change your dress setting your home or your office address for example you only need to
replace each space with a plus sign.
That's it.
But then you may ask me again but Marcella if I'm developing this film for a person who doesn't understand
page B or it's Jamail they'll be forced to edit this file and set their address and key manually.
This is not feasible.
Don't you think not everyone knows how to write code how to edit a page file.
My client surely don't know how to do that.
Yes of course I agree with you.
It's not feasible at all.
But don't worry because by the end of this course I'm going to teach you how to turn all this into something
much but much more dynamic.
Just wait and trust me for now let's see what our map looks like.
Let's visit the front end and let's see if the map is displayed correctly down there
and look excellent.
Here's our map centered on the dress we choose and the marker as I said hey what do you think you like
it.
Hope so.
Excellent.
And the next lesson we come back is to have much work to do so.
See you then.
Bye.